I will come back on this video we are going to be learning how to do math in Ph be.
So let's go ahead and open our co-editor
and don't mind these files here.
If you don't have all these files because I might make lectures before this one here that I now related
to the ones you got in your computer.
So right now all you have to care about is that you have to just open up blank that BHB and we're going
to be doing the Save As Sometimes I decide to make different lectures later on when I'm already done
with a lot of lecture.
So I would put I would make another lecture and put it right in the middle of my course because I just
wanted to add it to the course so I would have all the files involved there.
And you might now have certain files so don't worry about that just worry about the lecture.
So worry about these blank that BHB that it should be it should be of course a size file.
Doesn't matter what part of the corps I am right.
So we got to make a save as on this blank that BHB.
All right.
I'm just going to close this.
So let's open up a BHB tag here.
And let's talk about math.
Very simple.
So math what is math.
Well we know that math is just calculated numbers in Ph.D. We do math like we do in real life.
So we say let's say we want to print out 50 states plus 45 and
we can see that he said right away we have this internal calculator working for us.
What I really wanted to show you is that you can do math you can do addition.
And then just going to you can also do subtraction will range between here so that where we have a break
they're close in.
All right.
We can do more to placation this just copy this whole thing there and I'm just showing you the syntax
multiplication like this with an asterisk this should be your number am your key word.
We also can do a division
like this with a four slash.
And this is called a floating number right.
Because we have a decimal there.
This isn't an integer because there's a whole number you know that by now right.
So we can do this like this.
And another thing that we could do is let me just put another brick tag right here.
These two spaces
is that we can Forty-Five two numbers then we can multiply them and we can divide it.
Then we can track.
We can do a whole bunch of different things like this.
And it was a calculated calculated force it would do just like a regular calculator.
Now let me do another one.
Last one I want to show you something very important.
I want to show you the order of operation to the functions.
I mean the math
right.
So the last one gave was a 55 and you might be wondering why in the world is that if five plus five
is ten.
Ten plus ten times ten is a hundred fifty five why did he gave it gave us.
Well the vote operation in piece is same and mostly all programming languages is the same as your basic
math from school.
Do you remember that you need to put parentheses in order for you to get certain elements before Sure
an elemental multiply will equally certain elements before certain elements right.
So if I wanted to add this before and multiply I would go ahead and put parentheses around it and save
it.
And you can see this changed to 100 because we are adding five plus five before we multiply this.
So we add five plus five is 10 and 10 plus 10 is 100.
So with parentheses we can change the order of operation of numbers.
We know that multiplication goes before that's why we got 55 last time because we say five times 10
is 50 and then 50 plus five is 55 and division dissenting with division division goes first five divided
by 10 by five.
Five divided by ten ryo ten divided by five and then plus five is five point five.
All right.
So remember that division multiplication goes before addition and subtraction always.
And that's just the basic order of operation I wanted to show you that before we continue on we see
any other math involved in the course.
Very simple to do that.
We can also just for the record when I do echo here we can save these variables.
All right.
And also look car collisions with a just just you know just to give an example here
and we can go ahead and call number.
Will this make it different variables.
Of course the number one plus number two right
does 36 because 12 and 24 36.
And then we can multiply here.
All right.
That should give you basic some basic knowledge about math and how we can do it with PH B.
So give us some knowledge about order of operation there and that's all the math you need right now
for this course.
Of course.
I will also give you some more information about some other type of calculations that BHB offers for
us of course.
Built in functions right.
So those built building functions are going to help us calculate do other things with numbers that we
need in order for us to make our programs more flexible and then.
Anyways I hope this was very useful to you and you were able to learn a lot in this lecture and I'm
looking forward to see you in the next one.
So take care and I'll see you in the next one.